---
layout: page
title: Contemplation
permalink: /Contemplation/
---


*I define myself as a contemplative Christian ... not exactly yet worthy of being called a Christian ... true Christianity is rather something which I aspire to ... my life is an attempt to define what true Christianity means FOR ME* and ***for me ALONE.***

As a contemplative, I only seek to walk ALONE on Earth among mortals. I am not at all very good at being a monastic contemplative. I have tried to live monastically, so that my existence can be more contemplative -- but there certainly are temptations in life and I am not very good at resisting temptation ... so I have not always been as monastic as I was called to be.  In general, my failures have taught me that I am addicted to certain comforts and pleasures. My sole shot at redemption is I do realize that I am an addict; I do understand what it takes for me to avoid comforts and pleasures. My life is more than sufficient in every dimension; I have more than what I need, but cannot fix anyone else. I understand now why I must do whatever I must do to avoid even being asked to try. ***Even if it looks like an entertaining funeral ... I will let the dead bury their dead.***

My aspiration to Christianity is shaped by my traditions and those who came before me. It can be understood by looking at the first question of the Heidelberg catechism which reminds Christians of what our ***ONLY*** comfort can ever be as Christians. The CHOICE of accepting Jesus as our Savior means understanding the full meaning of this simple question, even if we understand it in a metaphorical context.  When we speak of *belonging to Jesus* ... we are not talking about something idioticly, trivially and pathetically *human* such as a deed or title, a marriage vow or oath, or some sort of fraternity pledge/activation ceremony or *sacred brotherhood of warriors* ... these human notions of *belonging* are laughably insignificant and immature  ... BELONGING to to Jesus Christ is about FULLY accepting the idea as firmly concrete and absolute that we believe that our ONLY comfort in life and in death [including any notion of an afterlife] is that *we are not our own, but belong—body and soul, in life and in death—to our faithful Savior, Jesus Christ.* 

Of course, the *in body and soul, in life and in death* parts means that we, as Christians are *the belongings* ... not the owner of the belongings ... we do not get to call the shots on what life or any afterlife is about ... we do not EVER get to judge other humans.  We can believe whatever we want to believe -- but we should understand that, as humans, our minds have no comparison to the mind of our Creator, our stories and all of the assertions in those stories are only make-believe, even if they seem to work while we are lost in believing our own stories. We do not get to have any say what any kind of afterlife might be like ... stories we have heard from other humans are also just stories ... that includes the favorite stories that our favorite storytellers, parents, grandparents, favorite preachers, favorite authors told us are JUST STORIES. The important point here is that we must not EVER judge; we don't get ANY say who gets punished or rewarded. Only idiots allow their lives to be determined by the stories, hatreds and judgements of others, ie *the entire world in its entirety is not worth one single moment spent in hate.*

Hate cannot occupy our minds, but as a practical matter, we must know that this world is and always will be ruled by violence ... AND ... understanding how the Earth works, ie rendering unto Casear the things which are Caesar, is how the game works in our existence. This world is ruled by violence ... the state's monopoly on violence drives who gets to print the money and monetary economics has a large role in how wealth and power are determined ... anyone that is extremely wealthy gets more power and ultimately power controls the monopoly on violence.  

We must be shrewd and disciplined in the use of that limited time  we are granted ... we should not apologize for the downtime we might need or time for just daydreaming and thinking ... but we should not squander that time longing for or desiring cheap, shiny material things. The most important use of our time is time that, in every last thing we do, we should go about our preparations, acting with intention, UNDERSTANDING the unique WHY of our lives, our unique mission. The ONLY thing that really matters in this existence is *our* time ... and, regardless of our physical state, ***our*** time is entirely spent within the confines of our own minds, ie it is up to us to work on the mental discipline of controlling our own minds. 

As warriors, it is tough enough to just get our own mission right ... this is why all manipulative, attention-seeking, heart-wrenching, hyperbolically hysterical views of how others are supposed to behave simply must not matter ... regardless of the pressure that other sheep attempt to exert to keep the flock of their fellow sheep intact. Hate and hate-mongering activities, such as gossiping or participating in [or submitting to] the manipulation of the congregation are for fools ... we cannot and should not try to fix fools or Pharisees -- it's enough to know that manipulative, bullying, gossiping SHEEP are to be avoided at all costs.

It has taken a good long while to understand these things ... it has taken me over six decades of reasonably conscious effort as a contemplative to understand WHY it is necessary to let the dead bury their dead. I have finally begun to appreciate what should have been obvious before: the ONLY thing that I really value is my time in developing my discipline at my pace in my life as a contemplative monk or warrior. 

 