---
layout: post
title:  "Antifragile Government"
date:   2016-08-17 8:30:00
categories: Government
---
I have been watching and re-watching [Niall Ferguson's series on the six killer apps of Western Civilization](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Civilization:_Is_the_West_History%3F). As I have been watching this program, I have also been thinking and reading supporting historical materials with an eye to understanding the demise of different empires and I am almost dumbfounded by the degree to which most people in great empires have always tended to forget the importance of their empire's foundations, what made them great in the first place.  Thus, I completely agree with the whole premise of the show and highly recommend that others watch and re-watch the series.  

We cannot know if the number of "killer apps" is exactly six or the degree to which these "apps" are interrelated and basically share other deeper dependencies, but six killer apps is probably a good way for framing the discussion.  I believe that we should emphasize some things about those apps differently -- the show [like any show broadcast for popular consumption] was constructed [or watered down] TO BE POPULAR and thus avoid any controversy or appearance of toughness or antifragility that would cause people to dismiss the entire show or even question the BBC, Ferguson and those funding the production of the show.  

Fortunately, I don't face the same "lowest-common-denominator" constraint that Ferguson and the BBC did in 2011, so I can state that the six killer apps that made western civilization more antifragile, thus likely to gain from the disorder of history are: 1) intense competition [as a substitute for war], 2) the scientific method and widespread practical discovery, research and debugging, especially outside of academia or domains coercively dominated by the church, governments or similar political/religious institutions, 3) property rights and the Constitutional rule of law [providing the foundation for economic/cultural mobility within the republic and the world], 4) evidence-based environmental health and safety, awareness of fitness [for greater productivity and discipline by key individuals] and some key medical technologies, 5) free markets providing creative destruction of less efficient businesses and diverse alternatives for consumers and employees, 6) freedom of religious or philosophical thought [which underpins the motivation for things like a strong work ethic].  

I DISAGREE rather strongly with Ferguson on his conclusion, that we simply need to believe in ourselves ... we do need understand our history; that need is what drives Ferguson's conclusion, as well as his occupational choice ... so it's rather obvious that Ferguson's conclusion is a HISTORIAN's conclusion.  That would be fine, but to simply believe in ourselves, to revel in our own greatness ... or, what is now, PAST greatness, PAST conquests, PAST victories ... might work for a popular show on television, but as a practical operational code, it will create a bunch of backward-looking pride-filled entitled, but impotent little monsters.  

Freedom of religion and the philosophical quest still matters ... not for experts, academics, high-priests -- but for EVERY SINGLE PERSON. It is necessary to understand that the important part of "freedom of religion" is the FREEDOM part ... freedom of inquiry, freedom to doubt, freedom to question ... but we should acknowledge the practical necessity of having some sort of a belief system. Demanding that everyone must give up their religion is nothing more than demanding conformance to a belief in giving up religion.  One form of zealotry is as EVIL as another. History is replete with examples of the oppression and then stagnation that comes from conformity or uniformity in adherence to any religion or absence or religion (eg, Atheism or ~absence of religion~ and unquestioning faith in authoritarian communist State was the state religion of the USSR).  Freedom of religion serves the purpose of looking forward, for the quest for appropriate vision. As a practical matter all humans must heuristically believe in some higher power, a greater good, a larger agenda or philosophical objective to aspire to and motivate practical plans and SMART goals for conquering the next frontier ... it is entirely illogical, meaningless, circular happy talk to tell people we must aspire to believe in ourselves or our pasts ... we must look forward.  That means believing in Reality as it really is, not as we hope it might be, fear it might be or as others want us to believe it might be.  We must OPTIMISTICALLY see Reality as our friend; Reality is the ONLY reason we are here. Reality is the ONLY way forward. Instead of boastfully believing in ourselves, I believe that we should humbly seek to understand Reality as it really is.  

Our future Reality involves crisis, probably greater crisis than we have experienced at any time in the last two-thirds of a century. It is becoming increasingly apparent some sort of really serious breakdown in the American government is almost certain, perhaps sooner rather than later.  If it is sooner, then something like even civil war [or at least a declaration of martial law, suspension of Constitutional rights] will be likely within the next decade. I am optimistic because I believe that disruption and chaos can be extremely transformative opportunities for human growth. That absolutely does NOT mean that they are easy; it means than disruption and growth is far, far better than stagnation and drudgery. We are heading into very interesting times; these times will not be one bit easy at all; people will suffer and die and wish for less interesting times BUT tough times are necessary to shed weakness, lay the foundation for future post-traumatic growth. There are those who will believe with their full hearts and souls that these times are "end times" but WE humans do not get to decide when THE END is ... it is far more likely that these are simply extremely difficult times that will push us and everything about our human institutions harder than we can imagine.

The key to understanding the way forward lies in understanding the essential nature of antifragility and things that gain from disorder and chaos. Small things, like cockroaches, fungus or bacteria, gain from chaos and that applies to our institutions. It is the increasingly centralized nature of our institutions that makes them and the populations that depend upon them weak. The problems of centralization cannot be solved through the same modes of command-and-control thinking that created them. Instead, antifragile solutions will require distributed innovation from decentralized, diverse populations of freethinking innovators.

The human species can endure far more than any human would ever want to because although herds of dependent humans who look to experts are weak, independent humans who look to their direct experience and Reality-driven knowledge are antifragile.  
