---
layout: post
title:  "Personal Financial Independence"
date:   2016-05-21 8:30:00
categories: finance, investment, independence
---

1) The most essential thing to understand is personal finance is not about investments, it is about YOU, about your independence ... YOUR independence means that you make the rules AFTER you pay your way ... so personal finance is about YOU, your weaknesses, how much you need comfort, how much you depend upon reinforcement from others. It is certainly NOT about some investment or another, particularly not something that is popular with all of your friends, eg a home purchase.  The person who looks to the opinions of others or measures his wealth according to how well others are doing will NEVER have enough wealth and will always be impoverished. Stop being needy; stop groveling; stop whining, stop being an entitled victim. Do NOT waste ANY time making excuses or thinking that somebody else has it easy. Stop imagining that somebody else should bail you out or invest in your idea.

2) Ditch your addictions; ditch the relationships that are not going anywhere; ditch the baggage. First do no harm ... especially to your independence. You are an adult and old enough to know that you should not impose your costs on other people. Addicts always have a way of rationalizing robberies, leaching from friends/parents or other ways that somebody else should pay for their addiction.  If you are addicted to bad things, you need to limit the damage those things are doing to you.  It's not just about the obvious additions like heroin, alcohol or tobacco ... addictions include things like tv watching, social media, worthless friends or some other non-value-added distraction. You might believe that you are not an addict, that you can take or leave the thing without any consequences -- if that's true, just avoid the thing for a couple months.

3) Invest in your productivity every single day ... do as much as what is possible for you, do not worry about the impossible -- that will come. Get in shape so that you can get in shape so that you can get in shape and the impossible will become possible.  Whether you are a morning person or not, get up at 4:39 AM and CRUSH your workout ... even if your workout is almost nothing. Physical fitness drives mental fitness. You do not need a gym or dojo membership or a lot of equipment -- you can do burpees, pushups, do yoga, take the stairs, clean the house, do yard work. When you start CRUSHING each day's workout, tomorrow's workout will mattering and pulling you forward.

4) Invest in your health, nutrition and diet every single day ... do what is possible, do not worry about the impossible.  Eat better today than you did yesterday and commit to doing this every day for the rest of your life. You know what you should eat; you know what you can afford. For most of eating better is a matter of eating LESS, particularly of one or two things we know we should avoid. If you slip up and have a Krispy Kreme or something you know you shouldn't have eaten, do not dwell on it -- just eat better tomorrow.

5) Avoid distractions and costly habits and addictions; avoid friends with addictions who refuse to deal with their addictions. Instead work more on things of value to others that you enjoy. Most creative people and multi-millionaires are working fiendishly on seven to ten serious projects ... none of these people are one-off wonders, none of the truly productive or creative people define themselves by the superior tastes in microbrews, food or art ... they define themselves with their work. You cannot tell which of these projects will pay off or when it will pay off -- the important thing is to keep working obsessively on what you enjoy.

6) Control your projector. Inoculate your mind with the kinds of ideas that you want to shape your thinking. The best ideas are the old school ideas that have been around for 2000 years and still inspire current thinking. For example, read and internalize [what Seneca said about wealth](https://25iq.com/2015/05/28/a-dozen-things-ive-learned-from-seneca-the-younger-about-venture-capital-startups-business-and-life/) ... Google "Seneca" routinely to find new reflections from brilliant people on how they apply the words of Seneca to their lives.  In order to escape poverty, it's essential that you look HARD at how you are spending money and either invent, find or STEAL better ways to enjoy life more while spending less. When you have developed ways to get your cost of living down to $0/day, you don't need much of a fortune to be fabulously wealthy.

7) You are the average of your five closest old friends; since this applies to them as well, it is up to you to work with them to increase your average.

8) Curate a set of 100 mentors ... blogs, podcasts, YouTube channels ... Nicolas Nassim Taleb, Barry Ritholz, Niall Ferguson, Milton Friedman, Thomas Sowell, [Dave Grossman](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8RDCtMEHFLM), [Jocko Willink](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCkqcY4CAuBFNFho6JgygCnA), [Bruce Schneier](https://www.schneier.com/),

9) Curate a reading list of 100 books you are reading, re-reading ... you do not necessarily need to start right away with Seth Klarman's [Margin of Safety](https://files.leopolds.com/books/Margin.of.Safety.1st.Edition.1991.Klarman.pdf) but eventually you must read it because of what it has to say about discipline, effort, mindset and absolute control of emotions BEFORE investing large amounts of capital.

10) Be extremely careful with the use of credit ... it is best if you can pay off your debts, but sometimes [eg an existing debt from the past, an accident, an unforeseen medical expense] that is just not feasible.  Realize that debt is not JUST about paying interest to use money, it is ALSO something that constrains your flexibility and options in the future.

11) Before you have to ... start thinking about how you are going to completely reinvent yourself.  The next phase of your life may not be what you expect. Your retirement almost certainly will not be what you expect.  Start thinking about [writing your own guide for completely reinventing yourself](http://www.jamesaltucher.com/2015/10/reinventing-yourself/).

12) Be able to find your way around the world of patents ... and scientific literature ... and Github repos ... and data APIs ...  do not EVER, EVER, EVER trust some factcheck organization to give you the truth.  What all factcheck organizations specialize in is the evil art of crafting LIES that look sciencey, look like facts, look truthy. The scientific method still works but that means that YOU must use the method -- the fundamental truth of the scientific method is that you do not ever simply trust anyone who claims that they have used the scientific method [so you needn't check their work].

13) Money is not paper or metal or digital; money is TRUST. For most people, money is basically magic because they trust the system of currency even though it is far beyond anything that they can know well enough to trust. You may want to participate in traditional assets, but you should also invest in different things that you know and know that you can trust ... tools, seeds, soil, knowledge, networks, weapons and other hard assets that give you options.

14) As Teddy Roosevelt said, ["Do what you can, with what you have, where you are."](http://www.brainyquote.com/quotes/quotes/t/theodorero100965.html) This means taking honest, careful FULL inventory of what resources are available to you and making the most of that stock of resources. ANY time spent being jealous or envious or wanting what someone else has, wanting something beyond your means or beyond what you can do with what you have is time WASTED.

15) Read everything you can find to get ideas, but do not trust experts. Experts might be remarkable in their ability to generate ideas, but the ONLY way for you to trust something is for YOU to have TRIED it. Invest in what you KNOW works; do NOT invest heavily in what some expert you believe tells you will work.
