---
layout: post
title:  "Fighting Fires"
date:   2016-09-28 8:30:00
categories: crime, root cause analysis
---
You will see all kinds of articles that ... instead of inspiring people to work with their communities, neighbors and friends to solve problems ... call for people to look to a bigger role for government (e.g. "There oughta be a law to ...").  For example, you might see headlines that say something like *[Murders Rose At Their Fastest Pace In A Quarter Century Last Year](http://fivethirtyeight.com/features/murders-rose-at-their-fastest-pace-in-a-quarter-century-last-year/)*  

That's PARTIALLY true, but it is grossly misleading ... murders did NOT increase EVERYWHERE; murders did not increase in MOST jurisdictions where MOST Americans live.  The AVERAGE murder rate for America increased because it increased DRAMATICALLY in SOME jurisdictions.  

When we look at the data, we can test certain hypotheses and the data do provide answers ... but those answers raise new questions.  That is exactly what getting to root cause is all about.  When the data furnishes an answer, we ordinarily have to ask, *"But, WHY did that happen?"*  In fact, the need to asks several levels of WHY is not the exception, it is THE RULE. Experience teaches us that for any particular problem, it is necessary to use data AND to ask [five levels of WHY](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/5_Whys) ... beyond just drilling down to get simplistic answers, it is necessary to understand the complex cause-and-effect nature of the problem, i.e. we cannot quit solving the problem until we have populated the [full Ishikawa fishbone diagram](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ishikawa_diagram).

In jurisdictions with smaller governments, murders and crimes have decreased ... murders and all other crimes have certainly decreased in rather dramatic fashion in those towns/cities/rural areas that have VOLUNTEER fire departments. Crime increases [in some jurisdictions] where people trust and depend upon their governments more and instead of being involved, just feel entitled to government providing for them. It's NOT a Democratic or Republican thing; it's NOT an income or poverty thing, even though we ALL know that the ultra-rich always have hired thugs to take care of their things in their sterile, locked-down, *lifeless* RICH ***compounds*** -- driving down crime for REAL living human beings is primarily about how INVOLVED or ENGAGED people are in their communities, ie do citizens tolerate the **persistence** of *broken windows* in their community [because *some* windows get broken everywhere that windows are] OR do they tend to do something about solving community problems together?

It's important to drill down, to REALLY look at the data to see EXACTLY where the breakdown is happening -- things are NOT breaking down everywhere. According to NYU Law School’s Brennan Center for Justice, the [murder rate in cities is up 13% in 2016](
https://www.brennancenter.org/publication/crime-2016-preliminary-analysis) ... which is an alarming start of [what hopefully is NOT] a pattern of a double-digit increase on top of another double-digit increase ... since murders in the U.S. jumped by 10.8% in 2015, according to FBI data.  

Oddly enough, there is a LOT of good news in crime data -- GENERALLY speaking, in most jurisdictions, crime has been really low and been falling even more.  

If you don't live in an area where crime is falling ... well ... you and your community are doing it wrong ... and the data prove that you are doing it wrong.  If you don't like the conclusion, go argue with the data.  

In 2014, the FBI recorded violent crime narrowly falling, by 0.2%. In 2015, the number of violent crimes rose 3.9% and the number of property crimes dropped 2.6% ... while crime is dropping in much of the country, and even in some urban environments ... but in 44 of the 65 largest police agencies in 2015, the murder rate increased. There are some cities, like Baltimore, DC, Louisville, Chicago, St. Louis, Omaha, Houston and LA where things are seriously screwed-up ... compared to the rest of the country, those 44 urban police jurisdictions are bad enough by themselves to significantly raise the murder rates on average for the ENTIRE country ... in spite of decreases in MOST of the nation.  It is interesting that the very worst, i.e. Chicago [labeled by some as an "outlier"] are enough to counter the trend of the rest of the nation ... and it will get worse before it gets better because there are some "community organizers" out there who are NOT really providing any leadership, but instead are blaming the police and failing to look at the root cause of the problem.  

If you want to find the ROOT CAUSE for what is driving the crime increase in some urban hell-holes, here's a HINT ... it AIN'T the police doing the killing ... or looting the Walmarts after a riot ... or exploiting the unrest and riots for political gain by calling for more protests and riots, ie protests and riots are NOT going to help with what is primarily a self-inflicted problem.  

My guess is that it's like fighting fire ... which is MOSTLY about recognizing fire hazards, doing things to DE-ESCALATE the hazard level and making sure that the people you hang around with are also not idiots when it comes to escalation of risk ... idiots who play with fire must not be defended and certainly should not be celebrated [or even mourned] when the idiots die in a fire they started.  

Fighting fire is MOSTLY about behaviors ... but fire does happen, so fire extinguishers matter ... the problem with fires is much less where fire extinguishers are ubiquitous and EVERYONE takes ownership when it comes to preventing fires and calling out idiotic behavior that might lead to fire.  Sometimes things do happen -- that's why EVERYONE has know exactly where several different fire extinguishing devices, water, blankets are and EVERYONE knows how to help put out a fire because they had hands-on training using one within the last year ... in other words, if you live in a city with lots of immature, irresponsible, unsupervised uber-entitled children [regardless of what age they are] are running around with gas cans and fire-starting kits expecting the adults in fire departments to put out the fires, your city is going to BURN DOWN.

When it comes to situations where things are engulfed in flame and BURNING DOWN ... even in relatively small fires ... another part of fighting fire is about EXIT.  That means there is no good that comes from be being the stupid amateur hero, puts on his superhero cape and CONFRONTS the fire that is already out-of-control.  In other words, back away from the blaze, call in the professionals and do NOT complicate the problem the professionals have to solve by becoming part of the situation.  Do NOT be a hero unless you are a TRAINED PROFESSIONAL who is PAID to develop all of the skills necessary to be a hero, ie support your Fire Dept folks, support your police.  The thing to do with an out-of-control fire is to GET AWAY and let the professionals decide what to do ... don't be too surprised if they decide to let the fire burn what it's going to burn.
