---
layout: post
title:  "Why go to Mars when there are fungi here we haven't met yet?"
date:   2016-08-24 8:30:00
categories: bioremediation, antibiotics, enzymes, metagenomics, soil ecosystems
---
Understanding herbicide transformation is necessary for pesticide development for their safe and efficient use, as well as for developing pesticide bioremediation strategies for contaminated soil and water. Recent studies persuasively demonstrated the key role of soil white-rot fungi in biotransformation of various anthropogenic environmental contaminants. However, often this common knowledge is not associated with specific metabolic processes of fungi and therefore cannot be transformed into specific recommendations for agricultural practice.  Beyond just bioremediation of pollutants, think about how much more we don't know about building and conditioning of soils for optimal productivity?  If we are so smart about soils, what stops us from making it possible for everyone to be surrounded by a luxurious garden and living foodscape?  The answer is that we are most decidedly NOT THAT SMART when it comes to soils and everything that soils could offer us.  

Of course oceans are very important, but since most humans live on land, human life is almost entirely based on what soil ecosystems.  Of course oceans are a significant source of protein and the importance of oceans certainly cannot be dismissed, but [less than 3% of the food consumed by humans comes from the oceans](http://core.ecu.edu/geology/woods/SEARESOURCES.htm). -- I have no problem whatsoever with [smart people who like oceans disagreeing with me on the importance of soils](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Global_Ocean_Sampling_Expedition), as long as they are willing to back up their argument with actions and agree to move PERMANENTLY offshore. Very few humans live permanently on/in the ocean. It is interesting that oceans cover most of the Earth's surface, but there has not been a universally accepted "Law of the Sea" and, frankly property rights do matter when it comes to caring for resource that is essential for sustaining life.  Soil sustains life.  What keeps a human alive should be something that every human knows something about. Soil should be one of those most important topics, something essential for EVERY human being to be at least somewhat knowledgable about ... because soil issues drive life issues, food issues, water issues and climate issues. The LACK of this knowledge leads to some catastrophically erroneous choices.  

Many people [erroneously] believe that the largest problem facing humanity involves carbon in the atmosphere ... whether this is a concern or not, these people seem to completely ignore that 2,700 Gt of C stored in soils worldwide.  As almost all knowledgable gardeners or farmers would tell you, they would like to have more ... MUCH more ... organic material in their soil.  As anyone who loves growing things, anyone who loves having dirt under their fingernails, knows and there is a capacity to double, triple or quadruple the soil organic carbon in most soils under cultivation or in human use.  This is significant because there is only 780 Gt of C is in the atmosphere and a small percentage of humans believe that it should be two-thirds of that amount ... guess what ... taking 260 Gt of C from the atmosphere and sequestering it as soil organic matter represents less than a 10% increase C ... never mind that the even with that extra 10%, those soils would still be C-deficient when compared with what would be optimum for productivity and health of those soils. This matters because if we assume that world's oceans cannot be managed as a carbon sink [which is slightly debatable, but perhaps true because of property rights issues] it becomes clear that the carbon "problem" should be thought of as a globally distributed soil issue, not a matter of sequestering a giant amount of carbon is a single location.  It soil carbon is a matter that scales IF each human on the planet STARTS giving a tiny amount of thought to where and how the food is grown that they eat, ie the appropriate metaphor is not something cataclysmically moronic, eg visions of a pencil lead the size of New Mexico, but instead each citizen should be responsible for knowing enough about soil to produce their own food if they had to. In other words, the fear mongering of the climate change people is not at all helpful -- FEAR-driven policy is catastrophic. KNOWLEDGE-driven policy is helpful. We can do a much better job of utilizing our soils for a variety of different issues -- better knowledge of soils not only solves the carbon  issue, adding soil organic carbon will improve soil quality and productivity.  

The OTHER issue with soil ecosystems involves essential compounds like antibiotics that originated from studies of soils.  People fail to realize how fundamentally these discoveries have transformed human existence ... the real problem with this fundamental ignorance is the lack of understanding that we have only just scratched the surface.  We do not understand a tenth or even one-percent of what soil ecosystems have to offer ... we do not even understand enough to know how small the fraction of that one-percent is.  

As an example of how incomplete our knowledge is, consider how soil has, for millions of years, provides the environment for many different fungal species. These different species play an absolutely role in recycling nutrients through decay and breaking down of materials. Of course, these fungi produce different compounds [many essential for other species] in their digestive process but they do not just recycle nutrients by digest decaying plant matter. Fungi are attacked by bacteria which favor the same growing conditions and food stocks, but molds have defense mechanisms such as antimicrobial agents that prevent of the bacteria from making new cell walls and reproducing ... as Penicillium chrysogenum ... the ability of P. chrysogenum to produce antimicrobial agent penicillin appears to have evolved over hundreds of thousands or millions of years in soils in damp, consistent temperature environments in temperate and subtropical regions [which also favor bacterial growth]. Even though most humans now take penicillin for granted ... few know that the sexual stage of P. chrysogenum was discovered only a few years ago, in 2013, by mating cultures in the dark on oatmeal agar supplemented with biotin, after the mating types (MAT1-1 or MAT1-2) of the strains had been determined using [PCR](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Polymerase_chain_reaction) amplification ... the tools and technologies to do meaningful things are still being invented, as we stumble into things that we can't "see" yet ...  so we really don't even know that much at all yet about how we would begin to set up practical methods to select and breed what has been one of the most important fungi to human beings ... but others species, with uses we haven't really discovered or conceived of yet, are almost necessarily more important.  

When one considers that approximately 70,000 fungal species have been described, but the total number of fungal species is estimated to be well over 1.5 million and then one begins to understand that human beings have only begun to select and breed a very limited number of these fungal species for specific compounds and uses ... when we factor in the chemical, bacterial, plant and animal interactions inside our soil ecosystems ... it becomes almost painfully clear that our knowledge of soil ecosystems is teensy, especially in comparison to the human-scale crops and livestock that humans developed and perfected for over ten thousand years before even understanding that things like bacteria and fungi existed. Part of the lack of understanding is scale -- in order to really understand micro interactions, it's necessary to be able to observe at the nano scale. But it's also matter of understanding ecosystem complexities to frame the questions about co-evolution and stumbling into things, inventing new approaches and [making those REALLY BIG  mistakes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alexander_Fleming#Accidental_discovery), eg, [bioinformatics](http://www.helmholtz-muenchen.de/ibis/), [metabolomics](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Metabolomics), [PCR](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Polymerase_chain_reaction), [metagenomics](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Metagenomics) ... and doing everything to SCALE THE KNOWLEDGABLE EXPLORATION of how and why the microbial world of soil ecosystems works the way it does.  
