---
layout: post
title:  "Education Technology"
date:   2017-09-15 4:30:00
categories: EdTech
---

Education technology, or the technology of assisting students in developing their skills in learning how to learn and continually improving their ability to learn how to learn is one of [my philanthropic venture](http://markbruns.github.io/philanthropy/mvp/opensource/2017/07/15/Venture-Philanthropy.html) areas ... some of this is not really much more than in the formats for sharing ideas or executable notebooks to analyze data or various ways to improve channels for messaging and collaboration. A different facet of this involes natural language processing and computational forensics ... for example, the work on the analysis of writing, not just for assessing comprehension but even what the choice of simple words like the choice of pronouns says about an author's view of the world.

As a measurement engineer, one of my particular areas of technological interest involves assistive technologies and measurement technologies ... I am referring to sensors and systems of sensours or things like virtual reality or augmented reality as well as EEG neuroheadsets, MRIs and various neuroimaging technologies. I really don't know if these are really game-changing technologies or not -- but they certainly are intriguing and they will be more interesting as they are rolled out to a much wider audience of early adopters and more people play with the technologies and find new uses for them. This takes time, or perhaps more accurately, it takes a lot of use and experimentation and crowd-driven inspiration of better use, but eventually we might see some really compelling uses for how people learn, share ideas, collaborate and how these uses change with aging, injuries or the use of different substances that change neurochemistry. For example, it has taken awhile to develop but there is now a robust and growing scientific literature about [harnessing the power of event related [brain] potential (ERP) to study language, learning and development of the brain](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4052444/).

It is more clear than ever that it is no longer possible to think about the brain or neurological development as merely a sophisticated computer composed of circuits prefabricated by genes ... in other words, the old educational paradigms that are based on the idea that education is as simple as coming up with a better classroom are blatantly flawed. Educational technologies certainly should not be about simply programming or indocintrating a young mind with the *proper knowledge* ... never mind that even a cursory consideration of history should tell us that we do not have the start of a beginning of a concept of a notion of what the *proper knowledge* should be and we NEVER will have that knowledge.

The practical significance of the fact that we do not even really know that much about how learning happens yet is that there is more than enough for innovation and disruption in this realm.  We do know some things. We know that the humans beings who learn most are those who attempt to understand how others learn as they teach others. Human education is a deeply recursive, deeply collaborative, deeply adaptive topic and we should be learning throughout our entire lives, even if we learn most, learn fastest when we are younger. But as for all of humanity, we are still learning how to learn and the more that we recognize that education is about developing the skills to learn how to learn [throughout life], the more effective we will be in our attempts to educate and our attempts to develop educational systems and technologies. Our capacity to learn declines as we age, but it does not vanish ... it does not fall off of a cliff or decline anywhere near that dramatically at any particular age ... although one would think that if one looked at how our educational system is structured.  The nature of education changes ... a baby takes in everything like a sponge and an old person [in looking back and reminiscing] integrates the different lessons of life, drawing deeper lessons and wisdom from the perspective of time ... but the healthy approach is to keep learning until the end.

It is unfortunate that most education is not typically seen as being applicable to the real world ... but that is a function of how we have structured our educational systems.  Education should make us more productive for the immediate task that we face tomorrow or a problem that we will have to tackle in the immediate more knowable future. A baby should learn how to face the next hour, then as a toddler begin learning things that will be necessary to be able to learn as rapidly as possible as in the next day or so with the adolescent learning things that will be of impact in the next week or so to the primary task of learning how to learn ... but very early on, a human should learn how do things of practical significance, not to learn how to be the teacher's pet or to earn praise, but instead learning how to troubleshoot, think critically and systematically step through practical problem-solving difficulties. If we indoctrinate children with anything it should be the notion that legitimate praise comes from practical achievement and that no one is entitled to phony encouragement. Another thing that should be part of the educational indoctrination is something about the practical half-life of the value [and often correctness] of education. The half-life of a serious (ie BS + MS) engineering education which takes about five years to achieve is about 10 years and this pattern holds for other pursuits as well -- the significance of this is that a person must constantly be learning, throughout life, just to stay current.

The point is that educational technology matters for ALL age groups ... it's a sign of pathologically WRONG and dangerously ignorant mindset when we hear people say that we invest in education because *it's for the children*.     
