---
layout: post
title:  "Fasting In Practice, Fasting As A Metaphor"
date:   2017-04-02 8:30:00
categories: Nutrition, Movement, Sleep, Stress, LEAN, D.O.W.N.T.I.M.E., Mindful DISCIPLINE, Intermittent Fasting, Prolonged Fasting, Hormesis
---

For complicated reasons, we have allowed ourselves to be lied to about fasting ... it's not [entirely or exactly pure] malevolence or any sort of conspiracy to keep information from us -- but it doesn't really matter -- we have chosen to imagine that fasting is more incredibly dangerous than it can possibly be.  We basically wanted to believe the myth that fasting or any form of self-induced beneficial stress or [eustress](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eustress) to bring on [hormesis](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hormesis) or [improved performance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yerkes%E2%80%93Dodson_law) was too harmful to comtemplate.  Getting, living and staying LEAN is not easy ... it never was, but now we have the luxury of choosing how we go about improving our performance, ie it's no longer an the IMMEDIATE threat of "improve or be consumed" -- it's now the less immediate choice of "improve or eventually wish for death."  Lack of an immediate threat allows us to fantasize that lack of improvement is an option.  

The distinguishing feature of the truth about fasting is that fasting is extremely simple purification process, but simple does not mean "easy" particularly when we are addicted to wheat, processed foods and sugar. In our culture, it is not easy managing nutrition using an objective, evidence-based approach for peak cognitive fitness. It is not easy getting the right kinds of exercise, building agility or useful balanced, efficient movement. It's not easy managing your time optimally so that you get things done and can get plenty of sleep. It's not easy to attack the world's problems and remove the ultimate root causes of the stressors out of your life. But it actually is really SIMPLE. In fact, if it isn't simple ... you're doing it wrong. There are good mnemonics like using D.O.W.N.T.I.M.E. to use to recognize the CAUSES of waste (eg not listening, movement for the sake of movement, transporting, waiting) and fat (eg too much inventory, overproduction, defective output, extras for ego) in all of the realms of your existence.

Getting LEAN is NOT easy, because people are addicted to fat and people are addicts of wasteful thinking ... it's bad enough, but there are also "dope pushers" out there feeding on serving the bad habits of addicts ... it doesn't matter if we are talking about Lean Enterprise, Lean Startups, Lean Production, Lean Manufacturing or just being LEAN individuals ... getting LEAN is a matter of managing habits, it is stressful to change approaches to thinking but it is ultimately less stressful when the change you are bringing to your thinking is about removing the ultimate root cause behind the stressors in your existence ... and accomplishing that change in thinking is about institutionalizing habits and there's no substitute for perfect repetition of good movement, better posture with poise and reinforcement of correct habits in order to change [subconscious, involuntary, habitual] thinking.

It is way too easy to criticize all of the different diet and weight loss programs out there ... they are ALL miserable failures and do not work SUSTAINABLY ... some do work temporarily [with sufficient commitment to drive applied diligence] for a period of six-months to a year or two, but most of the time the body returns to an undesired FAT homeostatic set point.  When it comes to getting lean, there is ONE success out there -- it's in YOU already, it's what gave you your life, your existence and the body that has been passed to you as a result multiple millennia of intermittent fasting that hundreds of generations of YOUR ancestors.  Your ancestors may not have been perfect, but whether they wanted to or not, they had to use fasting in order to survive to give YOU life. Fasting, like exercise, is a GOOD stress to the body -- fasting is a stress that your body might not like all that much, but a stress that your body, mind and soul NEED.  

Everybody can lose weight with almost any diet, if they stick with the plan to achieve caloric restriction ... the [Biggest Loser Diet](https://www.amazon.com/Biggest-Loser-Bootcamp-Get-Real-Get-Results/dp/084874554X) is the quintessential example of UNSUSTAINABLE temporary success, i.e. the diet certainly works and achieves impressive results for 6 months, but when the "thrill of the attack" is over and the body's homeostatic set point drops the basal metabolic rate to survive, THEN weight reduction is unsustainable, the person is miserable AND even though there is no pleasure of consuming food, weight is regained.  The main problem with every unsustainable diet is the [basal metabolic rate decrease](https://youtu.be/v9Aw0P7GjHE?t=43m16s) that happens as a result of mere caloric restriction -- this means that after six months or so, the weight losses from caloric restriction get a LOT tougher because the basal metabolic rate has been decreased so much that weight gains happen with very low amounts of food consumption while at the same time, the lower metabolism causes the person to feel cold, stressed, uncomfortable, depressed and anxious to try anything but sustaining the program.  

Fasting, on the other hands, is a sustainable approach to life because fasting is NOT about caloric restriction -- it is a stark extremely that actually drives a change in hormones, reducing the bodies production of insulin and cortisol, the two hormones driving the homeostatic FAT set point. Fasting is also about cleansing, changing the epigentics of the gut bacteria, purging the system of everything that craves sugar ... but fasting also has cognitive and spiritual impacts -- fasting is about getting rid of a lack of mindfulness, getting rid of bad habits, snacking, eating in the car, eating while doing something else. [Eliminating all forms of mindless eating](https://youtu.be/v9Aw0P7GjHE?t=50m19s) seems SIMPLE enough -- there are no recipes or complex restrictions or meal plans to develop or remember -- the difficulty is there is time available to THINK, to mindfully contemplate, meditate and for many people this kind of simplicity [when one is fasting] is next to impossible.   

The physiological hardware in your body was [effectively] not just designed to intermittently fast, your would ancestors [like other species on the planet] would never have survived moving more than a tens or hundreds miles from where their ancestors were born if they could not hormenetic THRIVE after periods of prolonged fasting  ... THRIVING after periods of prolonged fasting is the enabling technology for migratory superiority, ie the ability to explore, survive and then DOMINATE brand new environments ... it's only RECENTLY that we have undermined our bodies by allowing ourselves to become habitually addicted to bad habits, engaged in mindless eating, eating while driving, eating at our desks, eating while watching television or surfing the net.  

Fasting is painful, it's unrelenting pain and therefore fasting is STRESSFUL ... but it is STRESS that you need ... fasting is like an exercise program that pushes you beyond the point that you thought you signed up for. Nobody should underestimate how difficult fasting is -- people do need to understand that, as with exercise and exercise past the point of comfort, there will be benefits ... but that doesn't mean the benefits will immediately be massive; the results will be HUMBLING.  Think of the results as you would body building. Nobody is going to win a Mr. Universe contest after five or six workouts or two weeks of extreme, grueling workouts in the gym ... most body builders quit because the results are humbling and they think that "the view is not worth the climb". Fasting will burn off fat for energy, it will allow you to think with greater clarity, it will allow you to have more creative insights, it will allow you to have brilliant spiritual visions ... but FIRST fasting will be stressful and painful and intolerable.  You will NEVER get addicted to fasting.  

Fasting is not particularly dangerous for most people if only it is a habit that is far too easy to walk away from or abandon ... affluent humans do not choose to fast because fasting is just not that much fun, it's not that soothing or it is definitely not an intoxicating enabler of escapism ... for affluent human beings, fasting is MINDFUL DISCIPLINE and doing it responsibly means paying a lot more attention to your body, health and fitness.  However, fasting is essential.  Without fasting, you and your species would not have made it this far ... fasting is tough, but it is like an abrasive honing tool that sharpens the spear for physical, cognitive, spiritual optimization ... but fasting is far from popular. Fasting, particularly at first, really sucks. Fasting has enemies. Fasting is aggressively criticized by many experts BECAUSE fasting does not help any expert's business model, selling fasting products will not make companies money or reward investors hoping to profit from the next Viagra ... in spite of what people might want to imagine, no professional is going to get fabulously rich being the "guru of fasting" because the only way to make fasting work, is to do it right ... and fasting right is HARD, and most of the work has to be done by the person fasting.  

The healthcare industry is driven by simple, easy solutions like prescribed medications and NEVER EVER asking people to do anything HARD [except pay the bill and deal with side effects.]  The problem with this approach is that simple, easy, quick solutions do not begin to address the ultimate root cause ... instead they addict lazy people to believing in the lies that sell simple, easy, quick solutions.  This is especially true in topics like diabetes or [metabolic syndrome](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Metabolic_syndrome) -- medications do not [and probably cannot] even attempt to begin to [reverse insulin resistance](https://intensivedietarymanagement.com/two-big-lies-type-2-diabetes-video-lecture/) or any of the issues in the underlying [endocrinology](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Endocrinology) driving the problem. Medications only address symptoms and give superficial relief.

# Getting Started, Acquiring Expertise, Understand Ultimate Root Cause

BEFORE you start fasting, you really have to LEARN a lot about fasting and nutrition ... you have to LEARN ... for yourself ... about the ultimate root cause of your health problems.

You can start with armfuls of books if you want ... work by Dr. [Jason Fung](https://www.amazon.com/Dr.-Jason-Fung/e/B01BT8K6FK/ref=ntt_aut_sim_3_1), Dr. [David Perlmutter](https://www.amazon.com/David-Perlmutter/e/B001JSAC00/ref=ntt_aut_sim_3_1), Dr. [Thomas N. Seyfried](https://www.amazon.com/Thomas-N.-Seyfried/e/B006M7MT86) or [Gary Taubes](https://www.amazon.com/Gary-Taubes/e/B0034P66MY/ref=ntt_aut_sim_1_1)... but you will also need to spend time at PubMed and looking at LOTS of articles about fasting, nutrition and topics that are specific to your health concerns.

# Fasting Risk Management

Of course, fasting is dangerous ... so is crossing a street, so is driving a car, so is eating anything especially if you haven't prepared it from scratch.  Fasting is dangerous ... but it's probably not as dangerous as having sex or routinely drinking diet soda. Fasting is nowhere near as dangerous as alcohol consumption.  Fasting is far less dangerous than buying or using any kind of illicit drugs.  Don't listen to people who tell you that fasting is perfectly safe; you should know what you are doing when you fast OR otherwise, it's as bad as routinely eating processed sugar or carelessly trusting that artificial sweeteners are safe.

# Become More Body Aware

# LEARN by experimenting in a knowledgable manner

# Hormesis

# Master Intermittent Fasting FIRST

# 5 + 2 Introductory Prolonged Fasting

# Prolonged Fasting 
