---
layout: post
title:  "Collaborative AI"
date:   2017-12-15 4:30:00
categories: CollaborativeAI
---

I am a venture philanthropist in that I focus on ideas for new self-sustaining, self-financing disruptive ventures that are not exactly geared to making an individual, ie either me or any investors, wealthy, but instead produce the highest possible return on the private resources of a wide population of the public. My venture philathropy is an effort to short-circuit the process of developing lean minimal viable products to demonstrate prototypes that others can expand upon. One of the inspirations for this endeavore is the [Carnegie public libraries](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carnegie_library) distributed across small communities provided a means for wide segments of the population to learn and enrich lives and the general level of public discourse. These privately-founded libraries involved a minimal level of investment in books and the bricks and mortar of the building housing the books.  They were founded without having to resort to the coercive violence of the state to tax citizens. The also were strictly voluntary educational centers, ie parents were not required to ensure that their children showed up in a library for eight hours a day throughout the year to be indoctrinated in use the of the library.  Instead, these not only became genuine highly distributed centers of lifelong learning and voluntary education, but they also became meeting places and community assets that became sustainable entities as beneficiaries of these libraries in turn donated their time, their own books and even their own fortunes in order to sustain and expand the appreciation of books, learning and reading. The INITIAL Carnegie    

Collaborative artificial intelligence has emerged as one of my most intriguing and interesting philanthropic venture  areas ... I believe that collaboration on HARD projects is necessarily about the physics of people or, more practically, about the physics of bringing people together, getting them "on the same page." To some extent, this is about messaging systems and utilities like git repositories -- in other words, it's not necessarily about real time immediate messaging, although things like videoconferences can be part of it. Perhaps, the biggest need in Collaborative AI is just findability or search ... to bring people together who are working on similar things, similar snippets of code, similar problems.

In other words, collaborative AI is not about people people collaborating on doing machine learning, deep learning, neural nets or other forms of artificial intelligence -- it's about using AI to facilitate qualifying collaborators and bringing people together to collaborate and providing the interface that gets out of the way so that people can collaborate ... as if they are sitting next to one another, without requiring them to be sitting next to one another.    
