---
layout: post
title:  "Digital Economy Intelligence"
date:   2018-01-15 4:30:00
categories: Networking
---

The biggest, most revolutionary news is not really being reported that much ... or maybe it is to some degree and nobody chooses to pay that much attention because they prefer infotainment and hysterical news about distractions beyond their control (eg [Trump's Twitter feed](https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump)) instead of worrying about things like their data and other facets of their lives that they can actually work on, tidy up and change in ways that directly affect them ... in other words, perhaps it's similar to how people prefer to watch athletes that might play in the Super Bowl or even investigate videos and books on nutrition and diet, rather than actually doing burpees or intermittent fasting.

The biggest news affecting the population of humans on this planet involves the digital economy and the importance of that realm has entirely exploded because of the rise of freely extensible, non-proprietary, open source technology for everything through open-sourced Unix, Linux [and Android] and all kinds of software developed by highly-distributed communities of developers using Git as version control system ... now the explosion involves the development communities around foundational technologies like Kubernetes and TensorFlow ... these things are revolutionary because of how rapidly developing awareness and insight of business intelligence activities is plowing up the economic playing field ... yet many people almost willfully refuse to pay much attention to the foundation technologies of the digital realm and how open source development changes the velocity and diffusion of technologies even though these things completely drive the economy. The distributed development of communities of developers who use and extend open source technologies is probably the big driving reason why capital simply doesn't matter AS MUCH any more.

Most views of economics are wrong or incomplete; even those who have informed views on economics, finance and investment tend to have backward-facing views that still look at how things worked a decade or five ago. Demands for [and returns available to savers of] capital are now very low by historical standards. It not because economies are stagnant, but it more that capital simply does not really explain as much it once did  -- yes, of course, capital and capital markets still matter. Similarly, anyone involved in mfg will tell you that labor costs do not really drive manufacturing costs any more, but labor productivity does.  Companies don't build mfg plants in other places or go offshore or overseas to escape high labor costs, corporate managements do what they can and must to adapt ... to escape INCREASING taxation, to avoid uncertainties about regulatory intransigence and to free themselves from the stifling INFLEXIBILITY of unions.

So capital and labor do still matter, but not in the same way they have dominated the economic discussion since Adam Smith or maybe before. And just as economics evolves, your understanding of economics [as it affects your life and investments] should evolve. The economy will always dictate where and how you work and live, what you have available to eat, when and why you get up in the morning, what your kids learn in school and who they interact with and who your descendants will be. So, it's always going to be true that *it's the economy, stupid!* But your economy is not as much about capital or labor anymore ... your economy is more data and the transformation of data into productive knowledge and business intelligence.

The digital economy also matters because the overall state of information security is ***maybe*** getting worse or not keeping up and [teams of hackers are getting enormously more sophisticated at exploiting the typical careless nonchalance or semi-disregard for information security that most have](https://www.wired.com/story/worst-hacks-2017/) ... stop wasting your time on the reported news and the daily dose of hysteria -- instead, pay more attention to your data and the digital realm. Start becoming somewhat aware of what is driving the really HEAVY traffic in the open source that are being used for the HEAVY LIFTING in the post-capitalist global information economy because that is where the big money is going to be [and because of THAT, it is also where the criminals, terrorists and evil-doers are going to be].  

The popular, reported, traditional news topics are a complete DISTRACTION ... just as much as NFL football and Netflix are nothing but escapes.  This is not about some conspiracy theory ... the tracking is not just the stuff the NSA or some other government agency Big Brother does ... what really matters is everything ELSE ... everything about our assumptions, perceptions, behaviors, choices, attitudes, psychological precursors that show up in our economic lives or tendencies to purchase.

And it's not just what each of us might be influenced into clicking on or buying but also how much influence we exert over our network of family, friends, professional colleagues and anyone associated with us. Our network is also tracked and analyzed to examine how it might influence broader networks and supply chains.  It's the full commerce collective unconscious biome that is driving a lot of different very smart people ... *the best minds of our generation* ... who are desperately trying to track, analyze, understand what we are going to buy next ... and why ... how that can be changed.
