---
layout: post
title:  "Mere Movements"
date:   2018-03-01 4:30:00
categories: Networking
---

Whether we want to admit it or not, we are members of different movements.  Just as "no man is an island" or we all have circles of old friends, close family members, key co-workers, professional colleagues and next-door neighbors who have an undue influence on our thinking. And, in turn, we have an undue influence on those people.  It does not stop there, of course, there are also movements that we pay attention to and participate in (e.g., attend conferences, read/comment upon contribute to peer[-reviewed] publications/blogs/social media groups) that involve similar impacts upon our worldview. Of course, we might not behave like zealots -- we might be very subtle in our approach ... we probably try to avoid "drinking the koolaid" when it comes to extreme or dangerous views ... but there are still "churches" we regular attend, either physically or increasingly virtually.  Human beings are gregarious animals -- we cannot NOT have human connections and this includes movements.

Any population of groupthinkers can imagine that they have created a lasting movement, because many mere movements are pretty good at listening to and believing in their own propaganda. Many so-called "movements" are FAR from genuine movements or legit movements, but instead are moderately-orchestrated PR, fabricated campaigns or even fashionable groupthink emanating from the world's echo chambers such as Silicon Valley, Wall Street or Washington DC ... this is done because many advertising/PR professionals and propagandists misunderstand the lessons (eg that Rome, or the Roman Empire or the population of Romans, was responsible for the spread of Christianity) from the most successful movement in history, Christianity ... without understanding anything about the success of populations who adopted Christianity, if only because of Christianty's secular values, eg living according to the Golden Rule or trying to think Win-Win in all dealings with other people ... rather than those cultures that did not, eg continued to take slaves, exploit others or venerate those lived according to a strictly or myopically selfish *me first* or *I-win-You-lose* morality. In other words, legitimate movements grow and gain momentum because those movements have a positive impact upon the participants.  

People might be "converted" being believers, but they remain believers and attract more converts because those people are more successful than their contemporaries and the most successful movements are long-term selfish or greedy in the sense that Win-Win thinking "expands the pie" and benefits everyone. Whether you've ever read / listened to C.S. Lewis's Mere Christianity or not ... and you should, just to understand the movement. It's not just because C.S. Lewis is easily at least 100X a better writer than you will ever be, but because you should understand exactly what Christianity or the Christian movement actually is, rather than what you imagine the movement is about.  Spending a few hours reading or listening to Mere Christianity will not convert you into a Christian -- it is MERELY about clearing up your misperceptions about what participants in the Christian movement actually [claim to] believe and do not believe. Christianity succeeded as a movement because its cultural values tended to make Christian cultures more successful. Of course, there are pathological movements that extremely jealous of the success of other movements.  This is why, Christianity is often attacked because individual Christians are rather obviously imperfect and particularly imperfect in actually consistently able to follow the teachings of Christ and thus are far from free from sin and very un-Christ-like.
