---
layout: post
title:  "Git Deep"
date:   2018-01-15 4:30:00
categories: Networking
---

I have been contemplating various educational opportunities in the study, experimentation and application of deep learning and data engineering.

As one should guess, whenever there's a solid proven NEED for something, the free market provides it. And that could not be more true than in the realm of education, particularly advanced technical education. The field is competitive and getting much better.  As a result, there's no real shortage of very affordable, extremely high-quality, highly accessible low-cost "nanodegree" programs with excellent instructors, solid curricula and good opportunities for mentorship and all kinds of opportunities for comradeship and collaborative hackery with other students. Udacity, Fast.AI, Dataquest.IO are some examples in the data science and ML/AI realm; there are others and there will be more and even better ones -- but since most of serious work with data involves all kinds of sysadmin tasks to accomplish the real work of data in data wrangling, munging and the time-honored chore of *getting the boss's computer set up so that he can figure out how to play along with the analysis in his office on his machine* ... so devops and sysadmin courses are maybe even more necessary than the data science or ML stuff, but there are things like O'Reilly's SafariOnline and Cloud Academy and a plethora of outstanding choices for that.

Of course, the very best of these opportunities are completely free ... but difficult and challenging, as REAL education is supposed to be ... they come in the build-your-own-with-what-you-find-and-hack flavor ... for centuries, this has been what the best technical programs have been about. People who are really serious and passionate about learning something ultimately have to go to this school, too ... even if they go to an extremely expensive university to hold their hand and assure them while they are struggling to learn. Learning, REAL learning, is tough and can be a real chore because it necessarily involves rewiring your brain ... if you are not uncomfortable, maybe even filled with angst and frustration at times, you are not actually learning -- you're just being entertained and more subtly indoctrinated as you are soothed with the false comfort that you are in a safe place of higher learning, surrounded by people pursuing knowledge.

I have gone from thinking [about education] that *there ought to be a better, easier, cheaper way* to *That's flat out wrong! Lousy, difficult and expensive DRIVES innovation and innovative thinking and stimulates people who can actually learn to REALLY learn.*

Here are some of the other different things that I am thinking about ... I will not claim that this is complete, coherent, well-articulated logical progression ... it's simply a collection of thoughts that drive my thinking on the business of offering data science as a service.  These are just some things that I am thinking about.


1.  Measurement systems analysis and accuracy of data

    Just because a sensor is providing a stream of data, very little work is ordinarily done to address the repeatability, reproducibility, bias, stability and linearity of the data ... essentially, most deep learning practcioners simply rely on more data gathered over a longer period of time. This sort of works ... the results might appear impressive [and generally are] ... but but we still have the old garbage in, garbage out problem.

2.  Data wrangling, munging and preparation.

    Roughly 80% of the work involved in data science is getting the data to be free from obviously bad data and outliars and formatted in a way that makes the data amenable to analysis.

3.  Setting up systems, getting past dependency problems and being able to share the data in a collaborative, intereactive environment.

    An immense amount of work has been done here ... but there's not really any end to the opportunities to make it even simpler, more reliable and robust ... essentially, it's still a matter of disruption ... but continous improvement also matters -- it's important to complete reinvent the architecture as well as generally simplify and re-factor the code base to make the end experience more reliable and robust.      

4.  Data literacy is almost necessarily abysmal; this is the true digital divide.  

    The fix for ignorance is ignorance.  That might not make sense immediately.

    Companies will always exploit ignorance to sell things to people that are not exactly what they need. Most of the employment opportunities in data science and deep learning are still ultimately about convincing people to do something that is *almost* in their best interest, but isn't really exactly about what is in their interest. Instead in the interest of behind the scenes work with an aim of leading the audience to a conclusion that the someone behinds the scenes wants. Consider the example of ad/product recommendation engines that feed on data like browser cookies and other tracking data ... data [and selling data] is what pays the bills for companies like Google, Apple, Facebook and Amazon. Many services or utilities that people rely upon would not be monetizable and would likely not exist without this exploitation. But, generally over the very long pull of time, people migrate to those things where the exploitation tends to be more symbiotic, less intrusive or disruptive and less [overtly] manipulative.  In other words, we will not change data literacy significantly; people are not data literate because they have other things going on in their lives and the *view is not worth the climb*. What will change over time is how many options people have. Ultimately, the world benefits by everyone having more alternative to make better choices ... that comes about as competition drives out the communication channels that are more problematic, more exploitative.

5.  Human life and the economic ecosystems that sustain human life in the 21st century is more about data and the transformation of data into productive knowledge and business intelligence.

    Politicians, policymakers and journalists don't really get this, but criminals, terrorists and enemies of freedom certainly understand this in detail ... probably better than most other people, even law enforcement and security professionals do. The overall state of information security is ***maybe*** getting worse or not keeping up and [teams of hackers are getting enormously more sophisticated at exploiting the typical careless nonchalance or semi-disregard for information security that most have](https://www.wired.com/story/worst-hacks-2017/). Which is another reason why the popular, reported, traditional news topics are a complete DISTRACTION ... just as much as NFL football and Netflix are not much more than escapism [although, in certain realms of human existence, the need for escapism might be real enough]. The tracking that matters in the digital realm is not really the stuff the NSA or some other government agency Big Brother does ... what really matters is everything ELSE that is tracked by the most shrewd digital hunter-gatherers who employ the best minds of our generation ... everything about our assumptions, perceptions, behaviors, choices, attitudes, psychological precursors that show up in our economic lives or tendencies to purchase.

6.  Collaborative data science as a service [including related skills like security and reliability engineering] on a JIT basis has the  potential to radically accelerate the negotiation or speed the convergence of best practices.

     The collaboration possible in open source communities makes some very exciting and productive alternatives possible. It is possible to involve several different resources which are the very best in the world for relatively small assignments ... and those resources can be involved simultaneous in different projects. Better communication and collaboration technologies mean that it isn't necessary to settle on who is physically available. Additionally, criminals, terrorists and enemies of freedom have one distinct disadvantage ... they MUST hide what they are doing; significant energy must be expended to ensure their privacy; they absolutely must operate at very high levels of secrecy ... most of the work in the open source realm does not depend upon these levels of secrecy or privacy.

     **It is not necessary to trust an open source developer -- or someone collaborating on Git repository ... it is only necessary to trust the soundness of the ideas put forth.**  That is significant because it should significantly lowers the barriers and uncertainties of the recruitment process. Moreover, it should be possible to recruit more talent than might seem to be needed in order to get more ideas, to optimize team interaction and team productivity.

7.  Tools that allow managers or project leaders to see who has contributed and how make it possible to determine the productivity of a developer ... and ultimately, productivity determines compensation.

     Marx was somewhat right in his critique of capitalism. He was definitely right that capitalists will compete to sell the revolutionaries the rope that the revolutionaries use to hang the capitalists ... even Schumpeter recognized that capitalists, particularly monopolists, have a fundamental blind spot when it comes to how they accelerate the creative destruction that leads to their demise. Nobody should ever worry too much about the creative destruction of monopolies ... humans are inventive, even if only WHEN they NEED to be. But Marx was right [at his point in time] about how capitalists exploit cheap labor. But that is only because there's ALWAYS a huge surplus of cheap, unskilled, inattentive, hate-addled labor ... when there is a shortage of capital, as there generally is, capital gets to call the shots. That doesn't change under communism -- the authoritarian dictators that control the capital are even more brutal at calling the shots than capitalists. Regardless of the economic system, the benefits will tend to flow to the resources that are most productive ... but we should remember that the world is completely ruled by violence, especially the firmly-entrenched, institutional violence of the state.

     **It is NECESSARY to always remember that productivity drives compensation to talent or return on any asset.** This is a matter of thinking, *"How can I make my talents, skills, capital and other resources the most productive in the highest and best uses of those resources?"*  In a violent, cruel and nasty world, it is particularly necessary to be more creative and optimistic, to look harder for better opportunities and to work more diligently on those things that will make what you have more productive. Of course, that means not quitting or getting some sort of nihilistic death spiral, but it also involves doing something that is scarce because it is HARD to do, but doing something that is really needed and what is really needed most is always changing, even if it doesn't change that fast. There are no easy answers, but it is clear that it is always necessary to resist following the herd too much and becoming part of the oversupply of unneeded resources. Of course, it is even more necessary to resist being filled with hatred or jealousy because when you are blinded by those emotions, you become a tool of those who depend upon the hate-filled, covetous, jealous mob to build the institutional violence of the state.         
