---
layout: post
title:  "Data Science As A Service"
date:   2018-01-15 4:30:00
categories: Networking
---

Would it be better for all concerned if data science as a service were provided to companies RATHER than companies hiring data scientists in the traditional manner of employment? Wouldn't teams of data scientists [backed-up by devops people, site reliability engineers, information security professionals] be better able to provide companies with far better frameworks for data analysis than what those companies could obtain by new recruiting data scientists or by training up and rolling their own people ... it would seem that just as companies had reasons to move their data from data centers to more secure, more reliable, less costly and [most importantly] more flexible data storage and computation architectures in the cloud, so also it would make sense for companies to outsource their demand for data scientists to providers of Data Science As a Service.

Here are some different things that I am thinking about ... I will not claim that this is complete, coherent, well-articulated logical progression ... it's simply a collection of thoughts that drive my thinking on the business of offering data science as a service. I will not YET claim that this business would offer the highest and best use of the resources involved OR that data science as a service would offer a compelling value proposition to demanding customers ... these are just some things that I am thinking about.


1. Optimization [and enjoyment] is possible because reliability; reliability is mostly about simplification; reliability is not about inflexibility or being locked into rigid structures -- brittle rigidity is deadly.

   Making things simple sounds easy, simplification is doable but arriving at the destination of simple is possible only through focus, making HARD choices and doing the work. It is not easy to take out inefficiencies, bad practices and anti-patterns out that do not add sufficient value ... often people are addicted to their bad ways and they put in a lot of energy justifying all kinds of complexicated rationalizations for why their need their addiction. It is easy to be distracted or to imagine a distraction is necessary to life. Consider for example how easy it was for some to be whipped into a frenzy over a news item such the deadly Ebola virus or end of civilization as we know it driven by change in net neutality policy ... hysteria, or *losing it* over the impossible complexity of the world is nothing other than deer-in-the-headlights comatose paralysis -- this kind of brittle rigidity is deadly. Instead of wasting any time on news and thinking that they must feed their addiction to hysteria about [Trump's Twitter feed](https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump) it would be much better for people to simplify, to devote that energy to things like [routine data detox](https://datadetox.myshadow.org/detox), housekeeping of messages and RSS feeds, exercise, doing jiu jitsu or a [solid intermittent fasting program](https://idmprogram.com/). Devoting more energy to tidying things up, sorting, standardizing, refactoring, standardizing on best practices and generally continually working on radically simplfying the clutter and technical debt that builds up in life will do far more to make things more reliable, simpler ... and more generally enjoyable ... but definitely more optimal.

2. The most interesting and enjoyable communities are natural communities; natural communities are fluid, change remarkably every single day and yet seem very tranquil, stable and comfortable to those who live in them.

    Over time, Nature is the great simplifier. Nature is not just enjoyable, reliable and regenerative, it is ferociously rejuvenative, beautifully antifragile and mercilessly competitive. Exploring natural communities not only allows one to explore much that is far more beautiful and elegant than anything humans do, it also allows us to explore how ecosystems depend upon predator-prey relationships. As with jiu jitsu, natural ecosytems show us how different species are all delicate and subject to attack or getting flanked by some other lifeform or disease or aging or inherent weakness. The true beauty of nature is that everything dies ... as a result, life really matters ... no animal can just spin up another machine instance and instantiate another life -- and yet the cycles of life go on and one and over time ecoystems get steadily more elegant and robust ... while the species within them remain fragile, delicate and beautiful.

3.  The economics of space and time have been very significant to the development of human culture, human economies ... but how we use data now has really changed that.

    The productivity we obtain through data, especially for data analysis that leads to radically better awareness of choices and radically better allocation of resources; it allows the human species to transcend geography to be radically more efficient and squander far fewer resources moving physical things or even power around. A simpler, more reliable, less wasteful economy transports less stuff and fewer people ... except for those [relatively] isolated cases where people derive an intrinsic benefit from the excitement of traveling, ie for many of us [who have had to travel a lot] travel is just not that exciting anymore.

    We shouldn't forget about the relative uncertainties, difficulties and costs of transport. It is cheaper, easier to use a plane or vehicle to move something than to carry it or to have a human courier deliver it [or to have to operate, without information technology, in dense urban environment where human couriers make sense]... it's cheaper to cheap to use a truck than tons of it is to use hundreds of cars ... it's cheaper to use a train than a truck ... it's cheaper to use a pipeline than a train ... it is cheaper to use a power line or a cable to move energy [and data] than a pipeline ... it is cheaper to use a fiber optic cable to move data than it is use energy ... it is cheapest of all when we have efficient networks that allow us to transport only the data necessary in order to perform the analysis to support better choices, better allocations, better logistics so that less moving of stuff and people is necessary in the overall system.      

4. Information wants to be free; people want to be free to use information. Thus, the most vital economies, cultural communities and social networks are not physically or geographically constrained. Economics has changed.

    Consider the explosion of interest we have witnessed in the last couple years in things like Kubernetes and TensorFlow ... think about who is involved in these things, what their backgrounds are, where they reside or work. The highly distributed development of communities of diverse developers who use and extend open source technologies is a manifestation of the big driving reason why capital simply doesn't matter AS MUCH any more.  Most views of economics are wrong or incomplete; even those who have informed views on economics, finance and investment tend to have backward-facing views that still look at how things worked a decade or five ago. Demands for [and returns available to savers of] capital are now very low by historical standards. It not because economies are stagnant, but it more that capital simply does not really explain as much it once did  -- yes, of course, capital and capital markets still matter. Similarly, anyone involved in mfg will tell you that labor costs do not really drive manufacturing costs any more, but labor productivity does.  Companies don't build mfg plants in other places or go offshore or overseas to escape high labor costs, corporate managements do what they can and must to adapt ... to escape INCREASING taxation, to avoid uncertainties about regulatory intransigence and to free themselves from the stifling INFLEXIBILITY of unions.

5.  Human life and the economic ecosystems that sustain human life in the 21st century is more about data and the transformation of data into productive knowledge and business intelligence.

    Politicians, policymakers and journalists don't really get this, but criminals, terrorists and enemies of freedom certainly understand this in detail ... probably better than most other people, even law enforcement and security professionals do. The overall state of information security is ***maybe*** getting worse or not keeping up and [teams of hackers are getting enormously more sophisticated at exploiting the typical careless nonchalance or semi-disregard for information security that most have](https://www.wired.com/story/worst-hacks-2017/). Which is another reason why the popular, reported, traditional news topics are a complete DISTRACTION ... just as much as NFL football and Netflix are not much more than escapism [although, in certain realms of human existence, the need for escapism might be real enough]. The tracking that matters in the digital realm is not really the stuff the NSA or some other government agency Big Brother does ... what really matters is everything ELSE that is tracked by the most shrewd digital hunter-gatherers who employ the best minds of our generation ... everything about our assumptions, perceptions, behaviors, choices, attitudes, psychological precursors that show up in our economic lives or tendencies to purchase.

6.  Collaborative data science as a service [including related skills like security and reliability engineering] on a JIT basis has the the potential to radically accelerate the negotiation or speed the convergence of best practices.

     The collaboration possible in open source communities makes some very exciting and productive alternatives possible. It is possible to involve several different resources which are the very best in the world for relatively small assignments ... and those resources can be involved simultaneous in different projects. Better communication and collaboration technologies mean that it isn't necessary to settle on who is physically available. Additionally, criminals, terrorists and enemies of freedom have one distinct disadvantage ... they MUST hide what they are doing; significant energy must be expended to ensure their privacy; they absolutely must operate at very high levels of secrecy ... most of the work in the open source realm does not depend upon these levels of secrecy or privacy.

     **It is not necessary to trust an open source developer -- or someone collaborating on Git repository ... it is only necessary to trust the soundness of the ideas put forth.**  That is significant because it should significantly lowers the barriers and uncertainties of the recruitment process. Moreover, it should be possible to recruit more talent than might seem to be needed in order to get more ideas, to optimize team interaction and team productivity.

7.  Tools that allow managers or project leaders to see who has contributed and how make it possible to determine the productivity of a developer ... and ultimately, productivity should sufficient to determine compensation.      
