---
layout: post
title:  "Antifragility Engineering"
date:   2018-05-15 4:30:00
categories: Networking
---
You've read NNT's books, you follow his social media presence, you know that Antifragile is about doing things that set you up to benefit from uncertainty and chaos rather than being a victim of it ... but you might be somewhat uncertain about how you can proactively engineer antifragility or develop the disciplined mindset to approach things from an antifragile "Don't Be A Sucker" perspective.

# Develop your own SMEA approach
SMEA, or Success Management Effects Analysis, is an inversion of the FMEA, Failure Mode and Effects Analysis.  Instead of worrying about failure modes attacking you and your business, you develop the resources to that allow you to be aware of disruptive changes that are emerge so that you can use those opportunities to profit or to be of better service to your customers and clients. Readiness is not something that just happens; it takes discipline and training -- but it also demands being cognizant of the human tendency to overfocus on what is in front of our eyes and ignore or dismiss our peripheral vision. Most people who have trained in the martial arts for any length of time are aware of the tendency to develop tunnel vision -- but most significant battles are generally won by flanking maneuvers, not by confronting an enemy head-on, not by using overwhelming force to going up against an enemy's strength. Success is not a matter of amassing wealth, power or fame -- success is about transcending these burdens and not needing to rely upon them. Success is independence ... "fuck you money" is okay, but it's MOSTLY about the "fuck you" of it and not so much about the money, which requires defense or maintenance. But you cannot achieve independence without developing and strengthening readiness.

To a large degree, SMEA is pretty simple. You probably have a pretty good idea about Readiness is about in your life ... so take five minutes and LIST the things ... spend five minutes, writing down words on Post-It notes that you know you need to work on to be more READY for whatever life throws at you. MAYBE your words will look like my words. Health. Knowledge. Relationships. Networks. Art. Discipline. Except that YOUR words will be at least as good or better [for you, at least] than my words. You are certainly welcome to use my words as a starting point -- but over time, I believe that you will find better words. In the following paragraphs, I will discuss my words.  

# Health

Health means ALL aspects of health that matter to you. Physical, mental, emotional, spiritual. Some might add things like financial health, but we will leave things like creativity or art and relationship health as another category.

The key thing about Health, when it comes to Readiness or the foundation for success, is that health determines our ability to perform tomorrow and the day after, in next week/month/year and more or less indefinitely into the foreseeable future.

Perhaps, when we are young we think that we can take our Health for granted ... but as we age, realize that we need to work at sustaining our health, just to be able to stay even. MOST young people, but not all, don't REALLY realize what this is about until AFTER they have learned how Health that is taken for granted atrophies rather preciptiously.  

# Knowledge

This is about information, not just knowing certain kinds of information, but knowing how to learn how to learn. It's also about explaining things to others, training and educational curricula, bodies of knowledge, deficiencies in bodies of knowledge (eg. it's about knowing what we know, what we don't know) and and it's also about how to test levels of skills in others to determine whether or not they've really gotten it. It is ultimately about mastery and even wisdom. But it's also about knowing where the data are; who has these data; what the problems are with different sources of data.

# Relationships

A range of meaningful one-on-one relationships give you human perspective, insights and resources to fall back on ... this is NOT about what you get from people, it is about what you give to a range of different people that actually helps them ... it's not about being liked or being popular; it's about LISTENING and being listened to ... that is necessarily a ONE-on-ONE thing ... so EACH relationship is important; it's also the group or team and listening to the interactions; so relationships are about the circles of influence that emanate from your you, from the five or people you affect most each day or so, from the twenty-five who you are routinely in contact with every couple weeks or so, from 125 or so that you're in contact with each year or two, from the 625 or so that routinely see you but aren't really part of your close circle, from the 3125 or so who are aware of you, know something about about, but don't know well. One-on-one relationships are about influence -- influence is not influence unless it happens in BOTH ways. In other words readiness is about LISTENING ... if you want to be a good listener, it's means that you must PRACTICE listening ... not necessarily physically, but in messages, emails, phone conversations, social media exchanges.  

This means ... Family. Friends. Business associates. Neighbors. Community. People who count on you. And maybe people you count on. These are one-on-one relationships that really matter. Think in terms of expanding circles. These are the five [or so] closest friends or immediate family members that you might interact with on a daily basis -- these are people you'd suffer or die or kill for, if that's what it took. These are the twenty-five closest friends or family members that you routinely interact with, at least every month or so ... these are people who you might lend a few thousand dollars to to or do significant favors for. Next are the 125 or so (ie Dunbar number) closest other people who you see or talk one-on-one with at least once a year or so ... these are people who you know well enough to exchange minor favors with, eg help move, shovel their sidewalks. After this, there are probably 625 or so people who you might routinely see at work or at church or in the neighborhood, people you don't really know all that well, but still say "Hello! Hey, How's it going?" to; people who really don't know you well enough to exchange favors, but you know something about what they do, where they live, what their opinions are, what they're about. Finally, there are probably about 3125 people who you are aware of, but don't really know all that well -- maybe you know something about them, maybe they're Facebook friends or others who you have met and have some one-on-one personal connection with.

There's nothing particularly magic about these specific numbers ... 5-25-125-625-3125 are just tidy numbers for illustration ... There's nothing particularly magic about how I have listed five different levels of connection or influence ... your *mileage* will vary ... the point is that we all have people who are especially close to us and we all have others who are connected to us in a one-on-one fashion but are more distant. The IMPORTANT thing about relationships is that they are both ONE-on-ONE and seat-at-the-table sized groups ... it's not that we have kissed them, touched them, hugged them, choked them out in grapppling match -- it's that we have a PERSONAL ONE-on-ONE shared, recognizable connection with that person and that among these persons, there are groups of us who all know each other ... relationships are NOT about knowledge or shared interests; that's sort of ANOTHER matter ... relationships are PERSONAL connections. You cannot possibly have a relationship with some sports hero or radio personality or book author or lecturer or person you only follow on Twitter if you have never met, never exchanged messages, never interacted with that person ONE-on-ONE so that BOTH of you remember the interaction ... if I have a One-on-One relationship with someone, it doesn't necessarily mean than we have met physically in person, but it does mean that our minds have had some sort of meeting. This means that if we ever do met in person, the exchange will be something like, "Oh, hi, Mark! Good to see you in person! Have you been following that _________ thing?" *And then the conversation picks up where we left off last _______*   

# Networks

Professional colleagues [not co-workers]. Allies. Shared Passions. Interests. Influences These are NOT really relationships; they might become the basis for a relationship, but mostly they're just shared passions -- these are people who not only have a shared curiosity, but actually have a passion for very similar interests or maybe shared backgrounds (eg Marines, college alumni, same niche of a profession).  It doesn't have to be a professional niche or level of investment ownership or interest in health or fitness, people could be ardent fans of the Rolling Stones or maybe they do a kind of woodworking or maybe they enjoy certain kinds of wine or they smoke and cure meats or they have similar hobbies or kinds of pets ... networks are a basis for shared appreciation and LOVE of different interests.       

# Art

Art is about something you DO actively, not something you just passively watch ... you DO it, but probably often but do it ALONE ... for the love of DOING it. It might be something like the art of lawnmower maintenance or fixing things or home repair that you do because you take pride in knowing that you did it. It might be the art of landscaping or sculpting or painting. It might be something like a martial art that you practice with others, but you do drills and work on your conditioning and knowledge of the art alone. It might be something that you watch, IF you watch it to work on your art ... you might be a musician who listens to music, attends gigs and then goes home and tries to perfect a guitar riff or somehow try to DO something similar to add to the the art that you DO [even if you never intend to be a performer].

# Discipline

Getting up at 4:39 to workout; going to bed early to get a good night's sleep. LIVING according to a stoic philosophy in all aspects of one's existence, particularly in periods of difficulty, stress and loss. Being an OWNER rather than just an acquiror.   
