---
layout: post
title:  "WHY I will spend $5000 on FITNESS/HEALTH content in 2024"
date:   2024-01-01 4:30:00
categories: template
---


## Stronger, more courageous, less afraid

*HOPEFULLY, the value of my time in this exercise is worth a million times or 1000X or at least a few times more than what I spend on content, but if it isn't, then I need to use every trick, every cheat, every advantage that I can buy to be better at planning ...  so that I can become stronger, more courageous, less afraid.*

Maybe I should spend more ... I don't know if I can actually put MORE to use, but I do know that my content spend is strictly for better, more informed planning ... a more informed plan is all about more reliable EXECUTION, with more dependable results and less collateral damage or negative side-effects and less wasted time. 

*The point of content is NOT for relaxing, edification or any sort of entertainment value -- it's not just the ideas, but how the ideas translate into what ones DOES with the content ... how does the content result in a better plan and better means more effectively implemented? Knowledge is completely USELESS, even dangerous or delusional if it does not DRIVE implementation of a BETTER PLAN.*

This kind of content is not content design to soothe idiots and zombies, like Netflix or NFL or some form of news or movie channel which is about herding an audience toward an outcome. The point of this content is to advance the general plan of making me stronger, more courageous, less afraid ... the content for this year is like any years plan that has been about investing in my WHY and increasingly targeting what kinds of things have worked best for me healthwise and financially. 

# I will spend $5000 in 2024 on fitness/health CONTENT

I will invest much more in terms of my time ... and if this keeps working out, I will keep spending.

This whole enterprise is all about [Joshua 1.9](https://www.biblestudytools.com/joshua/1-9-compare.html) ... I am commanded to make myself stronger, more courageous, to be less afraid ... of course, I look forward to dying ... BUT I do actually worry a little bit about ever becoming worried about my health and healthcare.

I am not now sick ... I have gotten significantly healthier over the last fifteen years, ever since retiring when I was 49 in 2009 ... in late 2014 or early 2015, I could justifiably say that I was much healthier than five years 2009, but my health was not that perfect then.  In 2014/2015, I still came down with pretty severe case of influenza -- not something that would have kept me home from work, but it was one of those noticeable and lasting bouts with the flu that kinda threatened to get worse.  But I got better and didn't really ever get sick any more -- so that by 2019 or 2020, I could say that I had gone five years without ever being sick ... now, in 2024 I'm quite a bit healthier than I was five years ago in 2019.  But I am still nowhere close to being as fit as I will need to be for the next 50 years [or however long it takes for me to die] ... the POINT is that I really want to die quickly, as a healthy man dies, not after circling the drain for years ... so I will need to work harder make myself stronger, more courageous, and less afraid.

**I do not spend a dime on healthcare insurance or doctors visits.  NOT ONE DIME.** 

*That's because I actually AM much stronger, more courageous, less afraid than the TYPICAL 64 year old ... although I am far from being as fit as need to be.*  I just barely fit enough that I can realistically think about getting tougher ... some do not have luxury of being able to contemplate an ascent from where they are, ie their health is as bad and precariously unhealthy as mine was fifteen years ago ... since I know that this will not happen with out effort, I will spend $5000/year on fitness/health CONTENT in 2024 in order to improve the targeting of my efforts.

It is TYPICAL for others my age might spend north of $25,000 or $50,000 on health insurance, doctor's appointments/treatments, prescription medicines ... they might not think they spend that much; many do not realize the FULL cost of everything ... but there are big hidden expenses of being a healthcare patient, such as the cost of the vehicle which is a healthcare NEED because it might be unnecessary for other things, people are convinced they NEED a decent vehicle to get reliably to and from the doctor's office ... but the REAL biggie of healthcare expense is cost of making room in schedules for appointments, including for the time that will be necessary commuting to visits and maybe stress-buying extra stuff at the store after/before the visit AND the multiplicative time-waste of extra stress as patients in waiting rooms are terrorized after listening to other patients like them who are scared shitless about their health and not being able to afford their healthcare insurance.

I will spend $5000 in 2024 on fitness/health CONTENT.  I **used to** spend more on physical seminars, martial arts trainers and the cost of traveling to those things ... sometimes, I would a little bit on gym or dojo memberships ... but, NOW, I spend it on content.

In order to be more efficient with my time, I have to sharpen the axe before I wonder off into the forest of content ... so THIS YEAR, I spent $2500/year on [Peter Attia's EarlyMedical program](https://earlymedical.com/lessons/welcome-to-early/#1-5-our-core-frameworks) which entail three major areas: (1) RE-identifying my WHY; realigning my goals with that WHY, (2) more precisely and accurately understanding my health risks, and (3) using PA's strategic framework to better re-formulate my lifestyle tactics to get stronger. 


For right NOW, I just intend to use one year of PA's program ... but I expect that next year, I will look around for similar programs. I will also spend about $1500/year for a VARIETY of other content, predominantly martial arts/yoga training ... things like [Rickson Gracie's Academy](https://rickson.academy/en) ... [Ryron / Rener Gracie University](https://www.gracieuniversity.com/) ... but also other items like [Dr. Joe Dispenza Unlimited Course](https://drjoedispenza.com/) or [Dr William Davis's Undoctored Inner Circle](https://innercircle.drdavisinfinitehealth.com/default.aspx) ... and others. As an example of those others, I have found an absolutely a perfect FitnessCoach app ... which I have taught myself to HARD IGNORE *just to show anyone reading this that this content-driven self-programming happy horseshit of mine doesn't all STICK in my brain.*  

My BIG reason for switching to VIRTUAL content is that I have had the lesson pounded into me DRIVING IS FOR RETARDS.  In other words,it is NOT DRIVING that furnishs me with HUGELY beneficial impacts on health and fitness, especially on my mindfulness and general awareness of my level of FITNESS ... because I have to carry my body weight. 

NOT Driving is right up there with NOT DRINKING ... I have not had any alcoholic beverages since 2020 -- my main reason for quitting on alcohol was that I noticed many people who I know were talking about how much they tended to drink during the pandemic in order to cope with the pandemic ... *and that REALLY bugged me.* The thought of ever needing a drink to cope just flat out pisses me off ... whining about the pandemic *moving your cheese* and using that disruption as an excuse to have another drink is the kind of DISGUSTING behavior that I do not EVER want to have anything to do with. I was not about to set myself up to fall into that trap -- so I stopped EVER buying any kind of beverage with any alcohol content in July 2020 ... and, my life got better ... slowly, because I have not really drank all that much in a year, ie I tended to have a few beers with friends and sometimes overdo it in that manner -- but generally, I have not really drank all that much for decades. But still, since alcohol is water-soluble and fat-soluble neurotoxin, it's depressive effects PERSIST. It took about three years or so, but I finally can say that the neurotoxin is out of my system almost entirely and I don't see the upside of putting even a taste of alcohol back into my brain. 

The most affordable part of my content spend is the additional $1000 that I spend just READING ... on Pubmed and the pre-print archives ... but the pre-prints really require something like ConnectedPapers ($36/yr) ... and I like to have CURRENT texts, so I throw a little bit of money at Perlego ($120/yr) and OCCASIONALLY, maybe two months/year, I will opt for a month of O'Reilly at $49/month ... and I give Wikipedia some money every month ... a maybe five hundred dollars or so worth of USED books/year.  So, I READ a lot ... but the text version of my content is just less than $1000/year.

{NOTE on old text and hard-copy books: I am more than well aware that electronic texts are conveninetly searchable, but I am OLD and I still enjoy relaxing by paging through an old texts, eg martial arts/yoga texts, med school texts on neuroscience, nutrition, gastrointestinal health, hepatology as well as the basics in biochem/biophys and MCAT exam guides to get familiar with keywords [to be able to ask Bard a decent question] ... old texts are like the "comfort food" of content, because I still enjoy scribbling some notes and just doodling up things like protein molecules. *I get it ... but I am old and I'm not going to apologize for the fact that I still enjoy paging through old books* ... ***and being surround by stacks of books that I could have never afforded that many books back in the day when I hung out in bookstores or University libraries because owning books was way too expensive.***}

# The point of consuming content is to develop and implement A BETTER PLAN.

*It's all about what you DO with the content ... knowledge is USELESS if it does not drive implementation of a BETTER PLAN.*

My WHY is not going to be close to Peter Attia's WHY ... of course; I respect his WHY, EVEN MORE than $2500 worth of respect I spent on his content [*and hopefully, some people get that joke ... but I do need to emphasize it's a joke*] ...  but PA's WHY is not that applicable to others ... in my example, I do NOT especially want longevity; I DO want to live well and not need any care as long as I live -- but I do really look forward to dying and whatever comes thereafter as much as I look forward to figuring out more things about this life and being in more control of my health.

Implementing a BETTER PLAN to *hopefully* never need any care is about using the consumption of content to program, re-program and re-re-program myself to be significantly more disciplined about my health and fitness ... and mentally disciplined about strengthening that discipline.

There's just no other way to attain the FREEDOM from worry that I need than the DISCIPLINE of improving DISCIPLINE of implementing a better plan. The content is a tool to help me push me to get there.