---
layout: post
title:  "WHY I will spend $5000 on FITNESS/HEALTH content in 2024"
date:   2024-01-01 4:30:00
categories: template
---


*It's not about content for entertainment sake -- it's ALL about what ones DOES with the content ... knowledge is USELESS if it does not drive implementation of a BETTER PLAN.*

# I spend $5000/year on fitness/health CONTENT

It's all about Joshua 1.9 ... I am commanded to make myself stronger, more courageous, to be less afraid ... I look forward to dying, but I worry about ever becoming worried about my health and healthcare ... I am not now sick ... I have gotten significantly healthier ever since retiring when I was 49 in 2009 ... I'm healthier now than I was five years ago in 2019 ... and I was SIGNIFICANTLY more healthy in 2019 than I was 2014 ... but I need make myself stronger, more courageous, to be less afraid.

**I do not spend a dime on healthcare insurance or doctors visits.  NOT ONE DIME.** *Because I am stronger, more courageous, less afraid than the typical 64 year old.* But I need to get tougher ... so I will spend $5000/year on fitness/health CONTENT in 2024.

Other my age might spend north of $25,000 or $50,000 on health insurance, doctor's appointments/treatments, prescription medicines ... they might not realize the FULL cost of everything ... but there are big hidden expenses of being a healthcare patient, such as the cost of the vehicle which is a healthcare NEED because it might be unnecessary for other things, people are convinced they NEED a decent vehicle to get reliably to and from the doctor's office ... but the REAL biggie of healthcare expense is cost of making room in schedules for appointments, including for the time that will be necessary commuting to visits and maybe stress-buying extra stuff at the store after/before the visit AND the multiplicative time-waste of extra stress as patients in waiting rooms are terrorized after listening to other patients like them who are scared shitless about their health and not being able to afford their healthcare insurance.

I spend $5000/year on fitness/health CONTENT.  I used to spend it on physical seminars, martial arts trainers ... sometimes a little bit on gym memberships ... but, NOW, I spend it on content.

In order to be more efficient with my time, I have to sharpen the axe before I wonder off into the forest of content ... so THIS YEAR, I spent $2500/year on [Peter Attia's EarlyMedical program] which entail three major areas: (1) RE-identifying my goals, (2) better understanding your risks, and (3) using PA's strategic framework to better formulate my tactics to get healthier. 

I am not now sick ... I am significantly healthier than I was five years ago in 2019 ... and I was SIGNIFICANTLY more healthy in 2019 than I was 2014 ... and even that low level was SIGNIFICANTLY better than in 2009 when I retired to focus on my health, since I knew then that I was very likely to relapse into early 2007 when I was given hours or days, but not weeks to live.

I am not now sick ... but I feel a need to CHANGE to become SIGNIFICANTLY more healthy and FIT ... so I expect that my PA EarlyMedical program will be a one-year bootcamp course kind of a ONE YEAR OR ELSE content spend ...  but, who knows, maybe it do some things but not others and end up being more of a two-year $5000 spend.

For NOW, I just intend to use one year ... and to SEE SOME EFFING RESULTS! I will also spend about $1500/year for a VARIETY of other content, predominantly martial arts/yoga training ... things like [Rickson Gracie's Academy](https://rickson.academy/en) ... [Ryron / Rener Gracie University](https://www.gracieuniversity.com/) ... but also other items like [Dr. Joe Dispenza Unlimited Course](https://drjoedispenza.com/) or [Dr William Davis's Undoctored Inner Circle](https://innercircle.drdavisinfinitehealth.com/default.aspx) ... and others. As an example of those others, I have found an absolutely a perfect fitness app ... which I have taught myself to HARD IGNORE *just to show anyone reading this that this content-driven self-programming happy horseshit of mine doesn't all STICK in my brain.*  

In case you have not already guessed, the PA EarlyMedical program is the NEW part of my content spend.  It's not a departure from what has worked in the past; it mostly represents the fact that I am getting older -- SO I have doubled-down, DOUBLED my annual health/fitness content spend.  I used to spend $2500/year on content ... using mose the $1500 of the previous paragraph, although I have switched aggressively FROM any kind of physical content to DIGITAL or VIRTUAL content.

My BIG reason for switching to VIRTUAL content is that I have learned that NOT DRIVING ANYWHERE furnishs me with HUGELY beneficial impacts on health and fitness, especially on my general level of FITNESS. But generally it just reinforces good aspect of my health also. It seems that NOT Driving is right up there with NOT DRINKING ... I have not had any alcoholic beverages since 2020 -- my main reason for quitting was that many people who I know were talking about how much they tended to drink during the pandemic in order to cope with the pandemic ... and that bugged me. The thought of needing a drink to cope just flat out pisses me off ... whining about the pandemic and using that as an excuse to have another drink is the kind of DISGUSTING behavior that I do not EVER want to have anything to do with -- so I stopped EVER buying any kind of beverage with any alcohol content in July 2020 ... and, it took about three years or so, but I finally can say that the neurotoxin is out of my system entirely and I don't see the upside of putting even a swallow of back. 

The most affordable part of my content spend is the additional $1000 that I spend just READING ... on Pubmed and the pre-print archives ... but the pre-prints really require something like ConnectedPapers ($36/yr) ... and I like to have CURRENT texts, so I throw a little bit of money at Perlego ($120/yr) and OCCASIONALLY, maybe two months/year, I will opt for a month of O'Reilly at $49/month ... and I give Wikipedia some money every month ... a maybe five hundred dollars or so worth of USED books/year.  So, I READ a lot ... but the text version of my content is just less than $1000/year.

{NOTE on old text and hard-copy books: I am more than well aware that electronic texts are conveninetly searchable, but I am OLD and I still enjoy relaxing by paging through an old texts, eg martial arts/yoga texts, med school texts on neuroscience, nutrition, gastrointestinal health, hepatology as well as the basics in biochem/biophys and MCAT exam guides to get familiar with keywords [to be able to ask Bard a decent question] ... old texts are like the "comfort food" of content, because I still enjoy scribbling some notes and just doodling up things like protein molecules. *I get it ... but I am old and I'm not going to apologize for the fact that I still enjoy paging through old books* ... ***and being surround by stacks of books that I could have never afforded that many books back in the day when I hung out in bookstores or University libraries because owning books was way too expensive.***}

# The point of consuming content is to develop and implement A BETTER PLAN.

*It's all about what you DO with the content ... knowledge is USELESS if it does not drive implementation of a BETTER PLAN.*

## A Better Plan Starts with BETTER Knowing The WHY of the Plan

My WHY is about being a BETTER example of my WHY ... of course, I don't exactly know my WHY yet ... for me, this existence is about pondering that WHY.

I do KNOW with absolute certainty that my WHY has absolutely nothing to to live like other people or just conforming to their choices ... you could say that radical nonconformance, in search of a better way is most of my WHY ... and the other part of that WHY is about being a better example on that radical conformance.  

Of course, I respect other choices and others WHYs, but I not other people and they are not me. We are free to choose amongst the best examples.  But small-minded gossips, karens and idiots do think that way. So I get PISSED OFF REALLY QUICK when idiots shift in into their hardcore ***community-idiot-enforcer*** mode of behavior and assume that I am supposed to value their choices and their WHYs highly enough to be envious of them or to want to be like they are.  We are DIFFERENT. Our Creator has set up the shuffling mechanism of every event since the start of the Universe to ensure that we have become UNIQUE. The UNIQUENESS is one of the most amazing things about being alive ... only IDIOTS would want to sell out their uniqueness in order to conform to community standards of like minded people.

I look at other people's lives and I tend to think those lives are fine for them, but that's not exactly what I want, but there are pieces that I will emulate.  I respect and love other people's choices -- but that does not equate to a desire to emulate ... I do not necessarily want other people to emulate my example, but ***if it becomes necessary as a matter of self-defense*** I will KILL PEOPLE if they go too far in making a point of not allowing people to express their unique individuality.

Instead of a family or having related people surrounding me, I always craved different life experiences ... I have never had any wish to have children or a family. Of course, I wanted see myself as being responsible or accountable for my choices, so I thought that if I got a woman pregnant, I would try be the best father I could be -- but I was not interested in marriage, but I get how society and culture is based upon the sanctity of marriage ... at an early point in my life, my goal was to be an intelligence office, but as I understood things about wars and warfight, my interest shifting to being a game theorist, an academic theoretician working food and biowarfare policy ...  I have never wanted to do any crime or somehow hurt anyone, but I did want to understand what it's like to face life in prison so I have participated in various forms of prison ministries -- I might end up in prison some day for some sort of political activity or form of expression that makes people think, ie when thoughtcrimes become a punishable offense ... I was never particularly anxious to preclude other options, including the option to just walk away from what I was doing, but I wanted to UNDERSTAND the experiences from the inside, so recently for example, I wanted to understand what it's like to be a cross-country truck driver, so I tried it until I understood that I tended to tire mentally after physically resting in the drivers seat, so after a certain age, one becomes an unsafe long-distance driver even if one is meticulously scrupulous about diet, exercise and preparation ... I wanted to understand machining as well as tool and die work and the construction of fixtures and work-holding equipment; I still work in that realm ... I was interested in understanding the soil and farming, even though I never really cared about the machinery side of farming; I still raise some of  my own food and love soil ecosystems ... I also continue to be multidisciplinary engineer working on multidisciplinary projects and philanthropies ...  I have never craved and still do not craved being respected/revered as a professional or expert in any matter -- I DETEST the arrogance of experts; I can only put up with it for so long before being surround by professional experts really gets on my nerves.

My WHY is not PA's WHY; I respect his WHY, but it's not universally applicable to others ... in my example, I don't particularly want longevity; I look forward to dying and whatever comes thereafter as much as I look forward to figuring out more things about this life and being in more control of my health.  