---
layout: post
title:  "4th WHY -- Improve Health Through Hydration and Nutrition"
date:   2024-09-01 4:30:00
categories: template
---




## 4th WHY -- Improve Health Through Hydration and Nutrition

We want to ONLY ingest nutrients and pure water that we need. Most of the improvements come from what we take away ... fasting has to be a core competency, but even fasting has to be what is put into the system when the fast is broken.

50% of our energy/focus goest to first priority, 25% energy/focus goes to second priority, 12.5% to third priority, 6.25% to this fourth nutrition priority, 3.125% to the fifth priority and 1.5625% to the sixth priority ... if we have 112 hrs/week to spend on health, we spend 56 hrs on first priority, 28 hrs on second priority, 14 hrs on third priority, 7 hrs on this fourth priority, 3.5 hrs on fifth priority [in addition to the 56 hrs we spend sleeping] and 1.75 hrs/week on ... 7 hrs on this nutrition is PLENTY. 

We spend 420 minutes/week on this priority ... that's 60 minutes/day just eating.

This is the 4th priority because mostly it's about what you remove ... don't eat so much ... drink water not alcohol ...exercise and even work on breathwork before you make radical changes to your diet, but we do need to AGGRESSIVELY turn our backs on the Standard American Diet.

Mostly, we want to try harder to fill up on water, then drink more more water and maybe still more water  ... and maybe if we are sick of tasteless water, we can try water with tiny bit of tart cherry extract in it ... or maybe, when we want to wake up at 4 AM we can drink some water with coffee in it.

Nutrition is mostly about NOT EATING STUPID SHIT. When your eating habits are WRONG, there's no substitute for FASTING ... in order to regain control of your appetite and your gratitude for just having small amounts HEALTHY food ... if your eating habits are WRONG, there's no subsitute for FASTING to re-establish your mental self-control and ability to resist addictions to engineered food poisons and snacks that hook you addictively with different sugary flavor explosions.

Nutritional health includes appetite management ... that means OMAD, interemittent fasting, warrior fasting and extended fasting ... mostly, it means eating the RIGHT foods in the RIGHT amounts at the RIGHT times, recognizing that you probably afford to do some fasting as you age ... because, frankly, there's not much risk of your anorexia coming out of remission ... you're gonna eat those steaks or pickled herrings or cheeses or peanut butter or favorite meat items anyway -- ***but you don't need the toaster strude!***

