---
layout: post
title:  "The World Need Less Longing For Supposedly Better Times In The Past"
date:   2025-02-22 00:00:01
categories: holyhour
---


There has NEVER been better time to be alive for high-agency people ... and it's getting better all the time for high-agency people ... which is kind of remarkable because ANY point in history has been pretty great for anyone CHOOSING to be a high-agency person.

I'm not exactly saying that the world needs less nostalgia ... okay, maybe, I am saying *something like that* ... the world needs less longing for better times in the past. In other words, it needs MORE people to renounce being victims and instead to choose to be high-agency people.

People who want to choose to be high-agency people ... and it really IS as simple as CHOSING to be a high-agency person ... need to spend more time discerning their destiny and praying for the wisdom and guidance about what they are destined to create. They need to spend less time praying for some article, thing or relationship, eg a house, car, gadget, girlfriend or some sort of easy button, such as a magic wand to take them back to some set of golden years. 

Part of this for me, is that I find the past to be really intensely lame ... if you need more proof of that consider the year that was 1978: https://x.com/BrianRoemmele/status/1892693932221596022  I find that anytime, somebody out there who finds 1978 entertainingAF, because nostalgia for 1978 is way too easy to poke fun at ... I immediately feel myself going into a life-or-death level cringe followed by an hard-clinch, sphincter-tightening mode (akin to a recommendation that I have a digital exam done by some doctor in his anal lovenest.) I reflexive FEAR dealing with embarrassment and inadequately being able to defend the lameness of the schtuff from that time. All I can think about is "How in the heck am I going to explain something from 1978 to people who were not force to live through it."  1978 natural disasters, like snowstorms, are relatively easy to explain -- everybody understands deep snow. The difficulty is from cultural things like the exuberance of the song and dance routine celebrating the launch of a flip phone that somebody could have at their bedside ... although, it is kind of a precursor to current times when we all get to hear the song and dance routines from people who have been programmed to lust after the latest iPhone or Apple watch.

HOW is it possible that the commercials from that time period did not completely fry our brains or turn us into mindless, completely braindead consumerbots? 

*Or, is THAT what actually happened to a lot of us?*

